Low-temperature processed meso-superstructured to
thin-ﬁlm perovskite solar cells †
James M. Ball, Michael M. Lee, Andrew Hey and Henry J. Snaith *
We have reduced the processing temperature of the bulk absorber
layer in CH 3NH3PbI3/C0xClxperovskite solar cells from 500 to <150/C14C
and achieved power conversion e ﬃciencies up to 12.3%. Remark-
ably, we ﬁnd that devices with planar thin- ﬁlm architecture, where
the ambipolar perovskite transports both holes and electrons,
convert the absorbed photons into collected charge with close to100% e ﬃciency.
Thin- lm solar cells promise to reduce the cost of sunlight-to-
electricity conversion compared to conventional mono-crystalline silicon by using lower-cost materials and fabricationprocedures. A variety of approaches have been developed withdiﬀerent device architectures and materials systems. Solar cells
fabricated from thin- lm silicon
1and inorganic compound
semiconductors2–5exhibit high e ﬃciency by virtue of their ability
to full the multiple roles of light-absorption, charge separation,
and transport of both holes and electrons in a single material.However, their fabrication procedures make use of vacuumbased and/or high-temperature processing, making them rela-tively expensive and limited in their range of applications.
3,6
Additionally, long term pricing concerns for precursor materialsmay also limit the commercial success of certain systems such as
CIGS and CdTe.
7Emerging solar cell materials which can be
processed with solution-based techniques at low-temperature,such as printing, should ultimately lead to the least expensivetechnology. Excitonic quantum dot,
8sensitized,9and organic
solar cells10,11can easily be fabricated with these deposition
procedures but their maximum performance still falls short oftheir inorganic thin- lm counterparts due to fundamental
energy losses in charge separation occurring at distributed het-
erojunctions. Additionally, photoanodes in dye-sensitized solar
cells (DSSCs) generally require sintering at 500
/C14C,9which limitssubstrate choice and monolithic multi-junction device archi-
tectures. For the ultimate high e ﬃciency and low cost solar
technology a semiconductor is sought which is comprised ofinexpensive and abundant materials, is processable at low-temperature preferably viaprinting techniques, and generates
charge freely in the bulk following light absorption, enabling low
energy-loss charge generation and collection.
Semiconducting perovskites are an exciting class of mate-
rials which could ful l these requirements. Perovskites have
previously been used in nanostructured solar cells as thesensitizer,
12–14the hole-transporter,15a combined sensitizer and
hole-transporter,16and a combined absorber and electron-
transporter.17The latter work has shown that a mixed halide
perovskite absorber, CH 3NH 3PbI 3/C0xClx, is capable of support-
ing electron transport when coated upon the surface of an inert
scaﬀold in a meso-superstructured solar cell (MSSC), circum-
venting the signi cant energy losses at the electron acceptor/
absorber interfaces. This allowed very high open-circuit voltagesof/C241.1 V in solar cells with a perovskite bandgap of 1.55 eV.
17Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Clarendon Laboratory, Parks Road,
Oxford, OX1 3PU, UK. E-mail: h.snaith1@physics.ox.ac.uk
†Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available: Includes supplementary
methods, discussion and gures. See DOI: 10.1039/c3ee40810hCite this: Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6,
1739
Received 8th March 2013
Accepted 27th March 2013
DOI: 10.1039/c3ee40810h
www.rsc.org/ees
Broader context
The development of photovoltaic devices which can lower the cost per unit
energy of sunlight-to-electricity conversion has generally progressed alongtwo parallel research themes: thin- lm inorganic materials which exhibit
high e ﬃciency but are processed with expensive vacuum-based tech-
niques and/or high temperature sintering; and emerging organic/hybridmaterials which are readily applicable to low-cost, high-throughput,solution-based deposition procedures but su ﬀer from a lower funda-
mental e ﬃciency limit due to inherent energy losses at charge separating
interfaces. Until now, no single semiconductor material has been able tocombine low-temperature solution-processibility with e ﬃcient ful lment
of the three primary functions of a solar cell active layer: light absorption,
free-carrier generation, and transport of both holes and electrons to theirselective contacts. Here we have found that a perovskite semiconductorcan accommodate all of these demanding characteristics: it can operate
with the most e ﬃcient principles like an inorganic thin- lm whilst
maintaining the processibility of an organic semiconductor. This repre-sents a remarkable leap forward for the development of low-cost solarcells.
This journal is ªThe Royal Society of Chemistry 2013 Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6, 1739 –1743 | 1739Energy &
Environmental Science
COMMUNICATION
Published on 28 March 2013. Downloaded by Hebrew University of Jerusalem on 9/6/2023 10:12:27 AM. 
View Article Online
View Journal
 | View Issue
In the previous reports of perovskite-based solar cells the
porous electron-transporting12,13,16or inert17metal oxides, which
support and structure the absorber layer, required sintering at500
/C14C. Reducing the processing temperature is important for
lowering cost, enabling processing on di ﬀerent substrates, and
processing on other device layers, in for instance multi-junctionsolar cells.
18Low-temperature processable mesoporous metal
oxides have been developed for DSSCs,19–22however, to date, the
most e ﬃcient cells still require two 500/C14C sintering steps.9
Here, we have found that Al 2O3nanoparticles can be
deposited from a simple binder-free colloid to form the meso-superstructured sca ﬀold with processing temperatures no
higher than 150
/C14C. As part of this study, we investigated the
inuence of removing the mesoporous sca ﬀold. With thin,
porous Al 2O3lms, a solid thin- lm of the perovskite absorber
is formed on top of the sca ﬀold. This thin- lm supports charge
separation and transport of both carrier species with an internal
quantum e ﬃciency approaching 100% and delivers up to 9.1%
power conversion e ﬃciency in a “at-junction ”thin-lm solar
cell. This is the rst example of a competitively e ﬃcient
perovskite-based solar cell which has been shown to operate ina conventional thin- lm architecture where the perovskite
absorber additionally performs the tasks of charge-separationand ambipolar charge-transport of both carrier species. Withthe optimum Al
2O3lm thickness we achieve power conversion
eﬃciencies of up to 12.3% in low-temperature processed
perovskite-based MSSCs.
Full details of the device fabrication and characterization are
provided in the ESI. †Devices were fabricated on uorine doped
tin oxide (FTO) coated glass serving as the transparent electrodeand substrate, respectively. A compact layer of TiO
2was
deposited by spin-coating from a precursor solution to act as anelectron selective collection layer. The low-temperature meso-
structured sca ﬀold was deposited by spin-coating a colloidal
dispersion of /C2420 nm Al
2O3nanoparticles in isopropanol, fol-
lowed by drying at 150/C14C. The nal thickness of the sca ﬀold was
controlled by varying the initial concentration of nanoparticlesin the dispersions before spin-coating. Upon cooling to roomtemperature, the perovskite was deposited by spin-coating froma DMF solution of methylammonium iodide and PbCl
2(3 : 1
molar ratio) which formed the perovskite a er heating to 100/C14C
for 45 minutes. The hole-transporting material (HTM) was
deposited by spin-coating a solution of 2,20,7,70-tetrakis-( N,N-di-
p-methoxyphenylamine)9,90-spirobi uorene (spiro-OMeTAD).
Finally, devices were completed by evaporation of Ag electrodesthrough a shadow mask. Devices were measured under simu-lated AM 1.5, 100 mW cm
/C02sun light with the active area
dened using a metal mask to be 0.09 cm2.
The only component in the photoactive layer of the MSSC
which requires sintering is the porous alumina sca ﬀold. By
removing the polymer binder previously employed, we havemanaged to create uniform porous alumina lms which only
required drying at 150
/C14C. In Fig. S1 †we show scanning electron
microscopy (SEM) images of conventionally sintered, and low-temperature processed alumina lms, which appear close to
identical. Dye desorption (see ESI †) suggests that their surface
areas are also similar.To optimize devices based on the low-temperature pro-
cessed alumina sca ﬀold, we varied the thickness of this layer
to assess the impact on solar cell performance. SEM images ofdevice cross-sections incorporating “standard ”400 nm
alumina sca ﬀolds similar to the published MSSC,
17thin 80 nm
scaﬀolds, and devices without any mesoporous sca ﬀold are
shown in Fig. 1a –c. The perovskite coating conditions were
kept constant for all sca ﬀold thicknesses. For the thicker
scaﬀolds, the perovskite absorber entirely in ltrates the
porous alumina, coating its internal surface, as previously
described.17The remaining porosity is lled by the p-type hole-
transporter resulting in a “distributed heterojunction ”. For
thinner alumina lms, the volume of deposited perovskite
exceeds the pore volume in the alumina lm. A relatively
thick, solid “capping layer ”of perovskite is therefore formed
on top of the sca ﬀold, giving an additional stratum to the
solar cell architecture. For the device with no alumina, simply
a solid thin- lm of perovskite is sandwiched between the n-
type TiO 2compact layer and the p-type organic HTM. In this
conguration the solar cell could be described as a p –i–n
heterojunction solar cell, where the intrinsic (i) layer is theperovskite absorber. The thickness of the capping layer as afunction of sca ﬀold thickness is shown in Fig. S2. †In Fig. 1d,
we show a colour-enhanced SEM image of a device cross
Fig. 1 Cross-sectional SEM micrographs of solar cells. Images show cells with (a)
a/C24400 nm thick sca ﬀold and no perovskite capping layer, (b) a /C2480 nm thick
scaﬀold and perovskite capping layer, and (c) no sca ﬀold. (d) Color-enhanced and
annotated SEM cross-section showing a general schematic of the solar cells.
1740 |Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6, 1739 –1743 This journal is ªThe Royal Society of Chemistry 2013Energy & Environmental Science Communication
Published on 28 March 2013. Downloaded by Hebrew University of Jerusalem on 9/6/2023 10:12:27 AM. 
View Article Online
section with a thin mesoporous alumina layer, to clearly
illustrate its strata.
The eﬃciency of a solar cell is quanti ed by measuring how
much electrical power it generates when irradiated by standardsolar illumination. The mean device parameters extracted fromcurrent –voltage curves under simulated AM 1.5, 100 mW cm
/C02
sun light, are shown in Fig. 2. A detailed summary of data for
several devices, from a single batch, at each sca ﬀold thickness
are given in Fig. S5. †Starting from the thin- lm p –i–n hetero-
junction solar cell without alumina, the photocurrent is
remarkably high. The mean short-circuit current density ( Jsc)i s
13.9/C60.9 mA cm/C02, illustrating e ﬃcient charge generation and
ambipolar charge-transport of both electrons and holes throughthe/C24350 nm thick solid perovskite lm. The J
scincreases to
16.9/C61.9 mA cm/C02for extremely thin alumina layers ( /C2480 nm)
where a thick solid perovskite lm is still present, similar to the
SEM image in Fig. 1d. The Jscthen slowly decreases with
increasing alumina thickness.
To quantify the di ﬀerences in generating and collecting
charge more accurately, the cumulative light extinction(absorption + re ection) through the layers of the solar cells was
measured. A detailed discussion of optical losses in these cellscan be found in the ESI. †An example spectrum for a device with
a/C24400 nm sca ﬀold is shown in Fig. 3a. By integrating the
fractional light absorbed in the active layer (see Fig. S6a †) over
the solar spectrum, and comparing this to the measured
photocurrents, we estimate a wavelength-averaged internal
quantum e ﬃciency (IQE). It is clear from Fig. 3b, that the
increase in J
sccorresponds to an increase in the IQE with
reducing alumina thickness. We note that the IQE here iswavelength averaged, estimated from the short-circuit currentdensity under full sun illumination and not from externalquantum e ﬃciency measurements.
The implication of the trend in J
scis highly signi cant. The
perovskite absorber used is close in structure to CH 3NH 3PbI 3.
The exciton binding energy in CH 3NH 3PbI 3has been measured
to be/C2450 meV,23indicative of Wannier –Mott exciton formation.
Hence the predominantly spontaneous dissociation of thephotoinduced electron –hole pairs at room temperature is
justied. However, the e ﬀective transport and collection of both
the electron and holes throughout hundreds of nanometresthickness of the absorber layer is not necessarily expected. Wepreviously observed e ﬃcient hole-transfer from the perovskite
to the organic HTM,
17and assumed that this was required to
enable suitably long lived species and hence di ﬀusion lengths
for both electrons and holes in spatially separated phases(electrons in the perovskite, holes in the organic HTM), mir-roring the functionality of dye-sensitized and organic bulk
 Fig. 2 Scaﬀold-thickness dependence of the parameters extracted from current –
voltage measurements of solar cells under simulated AM 1.5, 100 mW cm/C02
irradiance.
Fig. 3 Light-harvesting and internal quantum e ﬃciency in perovskite solar cells.
(a) Cumulative light extinction (absorption + re ﬂection) through the device layers
with a /C24400 nm sca ﬀold. The green region represents light which isn't collected.
(b) Internal quantum e ﬃciency integrated over the absorption spectrum as a
function of sca ﬀold thickness.
This journal is ªThe Royal Society of Chemistry 2013 Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6, 1739 –1743 | 1741Communication Energy & Environmental Science
Published on 28 March 2013. Downloaded by Hebrew University of Jerusalem on 9/6/2023 10:12:27 AM. 
View Article Online
heterojunction solar cells.24–26It has also been demonstrated
that a similar perovskite can sustain long range hole transport
and collection, but with the electron being transferred to mes-oporous TiO
2.16Here, the devices exhibiting near 100% IQE are
predominantly composed of solid perovskite lms, indicating
for the rst time that a solid thin- lm of the highly crystalline
perovskite is both capable of ambipolar charge collection andpreferable to the mesostructured composites. We observe thatthe crystal size in the as formed perovskite lms reduces from
>500 nm (precise estimation limited by the machine broad-
ening of the X-ray di ﬀractometer) in the solid- lms, to less than
100 nm when entirely within the mesoporous alumina sca ﬀold
(see Fig. S3 †). Charge trapping and recombination at the grain
boundaries may therefore be responsible for the observed dropin photocurrent for the mesostructured devices.
However, in contrast to the J
sc, both the ll factor (FF) and
open-circuit voltage ( Voc) initially increase with increasing
scaﬀold thickness, peaking at /C24400 nm, followed by a decrease.
The initial increase in Vocand FF with increasing alumina
thickness is likely to emerge from a number of e ﬀects. We
speculate that the alumina is acting as a bu ﬀer layer inhibiting
leakage current between the electrodes.27In addition, it may be
improving the uniform coating of the perovskite upon thesubstrate as is evidenced by increasing light-harvesting e ﬃ-
ciency with increasing sca ﬀold thickness (see Fig. S6 †). The
improved thin- lm formation is likely to reduce the occurrence
of pin-holes and “shunting paths ”, where, for instance, direct
contact of the organic HTM with the TiO
2compact layer would
lead to enhanced dark current leakage.28However, further
increasing the thickness beyond 400 nm decreases the FF, Voc
andJsc, because of the increasing competition of recombination
with charge collection. The power conversion e ﬃciency, h¼
JscVocFF/Pin, where Pinis the incident solar power, therefore
peaks at a sca ﬀold thickness of /C24400 nm.
The current –voltage curve for the highest performing solar
cell, corresponding to a sca ﬀold thickness of /C24400 nm, isshown in Fig. 4. The power conversion e ﬃciency of this device
was 12.3% which is superior to that of the best reported e ﬃ-
ciency for the high-temperature processed MSSC,17and matches
the highest reported e ﬃciency for liquid electrolyte DSSCs.9A
histogram of e ﬃciencies for identically fabricated cells is given
in Fig. S7. †Devices with the low-temperature processed Al 2O3
show much improved reproducibility, with the average e ﬃ-
ciency increased to /C249% compared to /C246% in the previous
MSSC report.17This clearly demonstrates that high temperature
sintering of the sca ﬀold is super uous as a result of it serving
no electronic purpose, massively increasing both the versatilityand ease of manufacture of the perovskite-based solar cells.This study strongly leans towards a highly crystalline thin- lm
perovskite architecture ultimately leading to the highestperformances once issues associated with FF and V
oclosses can
be addressed.
Conclusions
In summary, we have demonstrated for the rst time, a solu-
tion-processable absorber that can be processed at lowtemperature (sub 150
/C14C) and e ﬃciently ful l the three primary
functions for solar cell operation: light absorption, free chargegeneration, and e ﬃcient transport of both holes and electrons
with minimal recombination losses in a solid thin lm. This
approach removes the necessity in solution-processed photo-
voltaics for a bulk heterojunction; separate electron and hole
charge-transport media within an interpenetrating composite,greatly simplifying the device architecture. In addition, we havefound that the metal oxide sca ﬀold on which the perovskite is
formed can be fabricated at low-temperature. With thisapproach we have achieved a remarkable power conversioneﬃciency of 12.3%. This renders the perovskite solar cells
compatible with exible substrates and multijunction device
architectures, the latter which can lead to a further step increase
in the solar cell e ﬃciency.
