Low-temperature processed meso-superstructured to thin-ﬁlm perovskite solar cells † James M. Ball, Michael M. Lee, Andrew Hey and Henry J. Snaith * We have reduced the processing temperature of the bulk absorber layer in CH 3NH3PbI3/C0xClxperovskite solar cells from 500 to <150/C14C and achieved power conversion e ﬃciencies up to 12.3%. Remark- ably, we ﬁnd that devices with planar thin- ﬁlm architecture, where the ambipolar perovskite transports both holes and electrons, convert the absorbed photons into collected charge with close to100% e ﬃciency. Thin- lm solar cells promise to reduce the cost of sunlight-to- electricity conversion compared to conventional mono-crystalline silicon by using lower-cost materials and fabricationprocedures. A variety of approaches have been developed withdiﬀerent device architectures and materials systems. Solar cells fabricated from thin- lm silicon 1and inorganic compound semiconductors2–5exhibit high e ﬃciency by virtue of their ability to full the multiple roles of light-absorption, charge separation, and transport of both holes and electrons in a single material.However, their fabrication procedures make use of vacuumbased and/or high-temperature processing, making them rela-tively expensive and limited in their range of applications. 3,6 Additionally, long term pricing concerns for precursor materialsmay also limit the commercial success of certain systems such as CIGS and CdTe. 7Emerging solar cell materials which can be processed with solution-based techniques at low-temperature,such as printing, should ultimately lead to the least expensivetechnology. Excitonic quantum dot, 8sensitized,9and organic solar cells10,11can easily be fabricated with these deposition procedures but their maximum performance still falls short oftheir inorganic thin- lm counterparts due to fundamental energy losses in charge separation occurring at distributed het- erojunctions. Additionally, photoanodes in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) generally require sintering at 500 /C14C,9which limitssubstrate choice and monolithic multi-junction device archi- tectures. For the ultimate high e ﬃciency and low cost solar technology a semiconductor is sought which is comprised ofinexpensive and abundant materials, is processable at low-temperature preferably viaprinting techniques, and generates charge freely in the bulk following light absorption, enabling low energy-loss charge generation and collection. Semiconducting perovskites are an exciting class of mate- rials which could ful l these requirements. Perovskites have previously been used in nanostructured solar cells as thesensitizer, 12–14the hole-transporter,15a combined sensitizer and hole-transporter,16and a combined absorber and electron- transporter.17The latter work has shown that a mixed halide perovskite absorber, CH 3NH 3PbI 3/C0xClx, is capable of support- ing electron transport when coated upon the surface of an inert scaﬀold in a meso-superstructured solar cell (MSSC), circum- venting the signi cant energy losses at the electron acceptor/ absorber interfaces. This allowed very high open-circuit voltagesof/C241.1 V in solar cells with a perovskite bandgap of 1.55 eV. 17Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Clarendon Laboratory, Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3PU, UK. E-mail: h.snaith1@physics.ox.ac.uk †Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available: Includes supplementary methods, discussion and gures. See DOI: 10.1039/c3ee40810hCite this: Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6, 1739 Received 8th March 2013 Accepted 27th March 2013 DOI: 10.1039/c3ee40810h www.rsc.org/ees Broader context The development of photovoltaic devices which can lower the cost per unit energy of sunlight-to-electricity conversion has generally progressed alongtwo parallel research themes: thin- lm inorganic materials which exhibit high e ﬃciency but are processed with expensive vacuum-based tech- niques and/or high temperature sintering; and emerging organic/hybridmaterials which are readily applicable to low-cost, high-throughput,solution-based deposition procedures but su ﬀer from a lower funda- mental e