Low-temperature processed meso-superstructured to thin-ﬁlm perovskite solar cells † James M. Ball, Michael M. Lee, Andrew Hey and Henry J. Snaith * We have reduced the processing temperature of the bulk absorber layer in CH 3NH3PbI3/C0xClxperovskite solar cells from 500 to <150/C14C and achieved power conversion e ﬃciencies up to 12.3%. Remark- ably, we ﬁnd that devices with planar thin- ﬁlm architecture, where the ambipolar perovskite transports both holes and electrons, convert the absorbed photons into collected charge with close to100% e ﬃciency. Thin- lm solar cells promise to reduce the cost of sunlight-to- electricity conversion compared to conventional mono-crystalline silicon by using lower-cost materials and fabricationprocedures. A variety of approaches have been developed withdiﬀerent device architectures and materials systems. Solar cells fabricated from thin- lm silicon 1and inorganic compound semiconductors2–5exhibit high e ﬃciency by virtue of their ability to full the multiple roles of light-absorption, charge separation, and transport of both holes and electrons in a single material.However, their fabrication procedures make use of vacuumbased and/or high-temperature processing, making them rela-tively expensive and limited in their range of applications. 3,6 Additionally, long term pricing concerns for precursor materialsmay also limit the commercial success of certain systems such as CIGS and CdTe. 7Emerging solar cell materials which can be processed with solution-based techniques at low-temperature,such as printing, should ultimately lead to the least expensivetechnology. Excitonic quantum dot, 8sensitized,9and organic solar cells10,11can easily be fabricated with these deposition procedures but their maximum performance still falls short oftheir inorganic thin- lm counterparts due to fundamental energy losses in charge separation occurring at distributed het- erojunctions. Additionally, photoanodes in dye-sensitized solar cells (DSSCs) generally require sintering at 500 /C14C,9which limitssubstrate choice and monolithic multi-junction device archi- tectures. For the ultimate high e ﬃciency and low cost solar technology a semiconductor is sought which is comprised ofinexpensive and abundant materials, is processable at low-temperature preferably viaprinting techniques, and generates charge freely in the bulk following light absorption, enabling low energy-loss charge generation and collection. Semiconducting perovskites are an exciting class of mate- rials which could ful l these requirements. Perovskites have previously been used in nanostructured solar cells as thesensitizer, 12–14the hole-transporter,15a combined sensitizer and hole-transporter,16and a combined absorber and electron- transporter.17The latter work has shown that a mixed halide perovskite absorber, CH 3NH 3PbI 3/C0xClx, is capable of support- ing electron transport when coated upon the surface of an inert scaﬀold in a meso-superstructured solar cell (MSSC), circum- venting the signi cant energy losses at the electron acceptor/ absorber interfaces. This allowed very high open-circuit voltagesof/C241.1 V in solar cells with a perovskite bandgap of 1.55 eV. 17Department of Physics, University of Oxford, Clarendon Laboratory, Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3PU, UK. E-mail: h.snaith1@physics.ox.ac.uk †Electronic supplementary information (ESI) available: Includes supplementary methods, discussion and gures. See DOI: 10.1039/c3ee40810hCite this: Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6, 1739 Received 8th March 2013 Accepted 27th March 2013 DOI: 10.1039/c3ee40810h www.rsc.org/ees Broader context The development of photovoltaic devices which can lower the cost per unit energy of sunlight-to-electricity conversion has generally progressed alongtwo parallel research themes: thin- lm inorganic materials which exhibit high e ﬃciency but are processed with expensive vacuum-based tech- niques and/or high temperature sintering; and emerging organic/hybridmaterials which are readily applicable to low-cost, high-throughput,solution-based deposition procedures but su ﬀer from a lower funda- mental e ﬃciency limit due to inherent energy losses at charge separating interfaces. Until now, no single semiconductor material has been able tocombine low-temperature solution-processibility with e ﬃcient ful lment of the three primary functions of a solar cell active layer: light absorption, free-carrier generation, and transport of both holes and electrons to theirselective contacts. Here we have found that a perovskite semiconductorcan accommodate all of these demanding characteristics: it can operate with the most e ﬃcient principles like an inorganic thin- lm whilst maintaining the processibility of an organic semiconductor. This repre-sents a remarkable leap forward for the development of low-cost solarcells. This journal is ªThe Royal Society of Chemistry 2013 Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6, 1739 –1743 | 1739Energy & Environmental Science COMMUNICATION Published on 28 March 2013. Downloaded by Hebrew University of Jerusalem on 9/6/2023 10:12:27 AM. View Article Online View Journal | View Issue In the previous reports of perovskite-based solar cells the porous electron-transporting12,13,16or inert17metal oxides, which support and structure the absorber layer, required sintering at500 /C14C. Reducing the processing temperature is important for lowering cost, enabling processing on di ﬀerent substrates, and processing on other device layers, in for instance multi-junctionsolar cells. 18Low-temperature processable mesoporous metal oxides have been developed for DSSCs,19–22however, to date, the most e ﬃcient cells still require two 500/C14C sintering steps.9 Here, we have found that Al 2O3nanoparticles can be deposited from a simple binder-free colloid to form the meso-superstructured sca ﬀold with processing temperatures no higher than 150 /C14C. As part of this study, we investigated the inuence of removing the mesoporous sca ﬀold. With thin, porous Al 2O3lms, a solid thin- lm of the perovskite absorber is formed on top of the sca ﬀold. This thin- lm supports charge separation and transport of both carrier species with an internal quantum e ﬃciency approaching 100% and delivers up to 9.1% power conversion e ﬃciency in a “at-junction ”thin-lm solar cell. This is the rst example of a competitively e ﬃcient perovskite-based solar cell which has been shown to operate ina conventional thin- lm architecture where the perovskite absorber additionally performs the tasks of charge-separationand ambipolar charge-transport of both carrier species. Withthe optimum Al 2O3lm thickness we achieve power conversion eﬃciencies of up to 12.3% in low-temperature processed perovskite-based MSSCs. Full details of the device fabrication and characterization are provided in the ESI. †Devices were fabricated on uorine doped tin oxide (FTO) coated glass serving as the transparent electrodeand substrate, respectively. A compact layer of TiO 2was deposited by spin-coating from a precursor solution to act as anelectron selective collection layer. The low-temperature meso- structured sca ﬀold was deposited by spin-coating a colloidal dispersion of /C2420 nm Al 2O3nanoparticles in isopropanol, fol- lowed by drying at 150/C14C. The nal thickness of the sca ﬀold was controlled by varying the initial concentration of nanoparticlesin the dispersions before spin-coating. Upon cooling to roomtemperature, the perovskite was deposited by spin-coating froma DMF solution of methylammonium iodide and PbCl 2(3 : 1 molar ratio) which formed the perovskite a er heating to 100/C14C for 45 minutes. The hole-transporting material (HTM) was deposited by spin-coating a solution of 2,20,7,70-tetrakis-( N,N-di- p-methoxyphenylamine)9,90-spirobi uorene (spiro-OMeTAD). Finally, devices were completed by evaporation of Ag electrodesthrough a shadow mask. Devices were measured under simu-lated AM 1.5, 100 mW cm /C02sun light with the active area dened using a metal mask to be 0.09 cm2. The only component in the photoactive layer of the MSSC which requires sintering is the porous alumina sca ﬀold. By removing the polymer binder previously employed, we havemanaged to create uniform porous alumina lms which only required drying at 150 /C14C. In Fig. S1 †we show scanning electron microscopy (SEM) images of conventionally sintered, and low-temperature processed alumina lms, which appear close to identical. Dye desorption (see ESI †) suggests that their surface areas are also similar.To optimize devices based on the low-temperature pro- cessed alumina sca ﬀold, we varied the thickness of this layer to assess the impact on solar cell performance. SEM images ofdevice cross-sections incorporating “standard ”400 nm alumina sca ﬀolds similar to the published MSSC, 17thin 80 nm scaﬀolds, and devices without any mesoporous sca ﬀold are shown in Fig. 1a –c. The perovskite coating conditions were kept constant for all sca ﬀold thicknesses. For the thicker scaﬀolds, the perovskite absorber entirely in ltrates the porous alumina, coating its internal surface, as previously described.17The remaining porosity is lled by the p-type hole- transporter resulting in a “distributed heterojunction ”. For thinner alumina lms, the volume of deposited perovskite exceeds the pore volume in the alumina lm. A relatively thick, solid “capping layer ”of perovskite is therefore formed on top of the sca ﬀold, giving an additional stratum to the solar cell architecture. For the device with no alumina, simply a solid thin- lm of perovskite is sandwiched between the n- type TiO 2compact layer and the p-type organic HTM. In this conguration the solar cell could be described as a p –i–n heterojunction solar cell, where the intrinsic (i) layer is theperovskite absorber. The thickness of the capping layer as afunction of sca ﬀold thickness is shown in Fig. S2. †In Fig. 1d, we show a colour-enhanced SEM image of a device cross Fig. 1 Cross-sectional SEM micrographs of solar cells. Images show cells with (a) a/C24400 nm thick sca ﬀold and no perovskite capping layer, (b) a /C2480 nm thick scaﬀold and perovskite capping layer, and (c) no sca ﬀold. (d) Color-enhanced and annotated SEM cross-section showing a general schematic of the solar cells. 1740 |Energy Environ. Sci. , 2013, 6, 1739 –1743 This journal is ªThe Royal Society of Chemistry 2013Energy & Environmental Science Communication Published on 28 March 2013. Downloaded by Hebrew University of Jerusalem on 9/6/2023 10:12:27 AM. View Article Online section with a thin mesoporous alumina layer, to clearly illustrate its strata. The eﬃciency of a solar cell is quanti ed by measuring how much electrical power it generates when irradiated by standardsolar illumination. The mean device parameters extracted fromcurrent –voltage curves under simulated AM 1.5, 100 mW cm /C02 sun light, are shown in Fig. 2. A detailed summary of data for several devices, from a single batch, at each sca ﬀold thickness are given in Fig. S5. †Starting from the thin- lm p –i–n hetero- junction solar cell without alumina, the photocurrent is remarkably high. The mean short-circuit current density ( Jsc)i s 13.9/C60.9 mA cm/C02, illustrating e ﬃcient charge generation and ambipolar charge-transport of both electrons and holes throughthe/C24350 nm thick solid perovskite lm. The J scincreases to 16.9/C61.9 mA cm/C02for extremely thin alumina layers ( /C2480 nm) where a thick solid perovskite lm is still present, similar to the SEM image in Fig. 1d. The Jscthen slowly decreases with increasing alumina thickness. To quantify the di ﬀerences in generating and collecting charge more accurately, the cumulative light extinction(absorption + re ection) through the layers of the solar cells was measured. A detailed discussion of optical losses in these cellscan be found in the ESI. †An example spectrum for a device with a/C24400 nm sca ﬀold is shown in Fig. 3a. By integrating the fractional light absorbed in the active layer (see Fig. S6a †) over the solar spectrum, and comparing this to the measured photocurrents, we estimate a wavelength-averaged internal quantum e ﬃciency (IQE). It is clear from Fig. 3b, that the increase in J sccorresponds to an increase in the IQE with reducing alumina thickness. We note that the IQE here iswavelength averaged, estimated from the short-circuit currentdensity under full sun illumination and not from externalquantum e ﬃciency measurements. The implication of the trend in J scis highly signi cant. The perovskite absorber used is close in structure to CH 3NH 3PbI 3. The exciton binding energy in CH 3NH 3PbI 3has been measured to be/C2450 meV,23indicative of Wannier –Mott exciton formation. Hence the predominantly spontaneous dissociation of thephotoinduced electron –hole pairs at room temperature is justied. However, the e ﬀective transport and collection of both the electron and holes throughout hundreds of nanometresthickness of the absorber layer is